You're
going to read it out,
which is hard to follow.
Good morning.
Sarah?
That's correct.
Oh, I have got the right one.
Are you from Webb Henderson, and possibly joined by Antonia?
That's right.
Fantastic. Welcome. We're in your hands for
the next 15... Is it 15 minutes we've got?
10 minutes, sorry, but please leave some room for questions.
Yeah. Chair Perrett, thank you. And I'm not sure if you also have
Antonia on. She's joining from a different location, but
perhaps I can do the introduction.
That was our plan anyway, and if you need to join her, you can do that later.
She's online now.
Brilliant. Thank you. So thank you for your time on this important
bill. As you'll all be aware, competition is the engine room for
productivity, and that's why in Australia, the ACCC is
accountable directly to the Treasurer.
And in the same vein, I think it's really important and apt that this
committee is tasked with considering how best to improve the Commission and
its performance. So,
as noted, I'm Sarah Keane, I'm a partner at Webb Henderson.
We're a Trans-Tasman competition, consumer, corporate, and technology
market leader. So we act for clients including the
ACCC and ASIC in Australia, as
well as major corporates in New Zealand, as well as challengers.
So I've been doing competition law for 30 years in New Zealand, Europe,
Trans-Atlantic competition law, as well as consumer regulatory law.
I'm also, from a governance perspective, a former partnership chair of a
major law firm and for the last seven years, a director and now chair on
the board of a platform-based leadership development company based
in the US and New Zealand and Australia, and we serve clients
like Workday and Salesforce and Target and the New Zealand Fonterra and Sport New
Zealand.
And that gives me access to how a step change in leadership can
develop capability, including future-focused capability,
for example, dealing with mixed teams of AI, agentic, and human workforces.
So I bring those perspectives to these comments today.
I'm joined by Antonia Horrocks, who's a consultant at Webb Henderson, probably the
most qualified person, actually, for the topic at hand.
She's been in private practice in New Zealand and London for 12 years.
She spent four years at the UK authority, the Competition Commission,
during a transition from a separate agency to a panel
structure within a wider agency, so quite apt for what you're looking at today,
and she's also spent seven years as General Manager of Competition, so
responsible for enforcement, at the Commerce Commission.
So Antonia's going to address a central issue in this reform, which is
why there's not more competition enforcement and how to
turn the dial on that.
We, of course, participated in the Rebstock Review
and agree with the observations of Dame Paula in that
report, particularly that the Commerce
Commission is a well-regarded agency and,
unfortunately, its ability to be targeted
and
basically its model is unfit for purpose and has really hindered its
ability to develop clear priorities, delegate work, and
to allow for outside-in perspectives.
So we'd welcome the proposed changes which allow the
Commission to delegate, because expertise is
absolutely critical to efficient triaging of complaints,
targeted investigations, and effective and successful
prosecutions.
We do have a real concern, however, about the two-tier
decision-making and the call-in powers.
To understand why, it's actually quite helpful to sort of step
back and think about all of the functions of the Commission, and the
way I think about it often is as a traffic light,
so red, orange, green. Red, the Commission is an
enforcer. They are actually acting effectively like the police, and they have the
power to prosecute criminal charges in both the
consumer and competition
framework. They are not decision-makers,
and so they
have to defer to the courts for
enforcement, basically.
The second layer is orange, and that's clearances and
authorizations. There, the Commission is the decision-maker, so it's got these
sort of bifurcative functions. When the Commission is the
decision-maker, it's making a decision about whether parties are
permitted to proceed when they come to the Commission
voluntarily for permission to do so in an area
where otherwise they would fall into the red zone, right?
And then the final function of the Commission is green, and this is like the
regulatory structures, where there's broken markets, and the
Commission effectively has to step in, in place of a broken market
and make decisions about how companies can price, earn a reasonable return on their
assets. So this is like airports and gas pipelines and that sort of thing.
The real problem with when the Commission doesn't have clear strategic
focus or priorities is they blur these functions.
So they try to behave like a policeman in the green
area, or they sort of transfer through their decision-making
function into their red functions, and it becomes
basically a sort of convoluted mess of the Commission
effectively acting in a potentially quite
authoritarian way and can sometimes
come across as
bullying. So-The
example that we picked up on in the
submission was this need for a de minimis regime, which sort of
highlights part of this dynamic commission sort of being perceived as beating
up on the little guy a bit.
But it sort of plays into this mixed dynamics where the
commission has pressure to deliver outcomes, and it can get a win
against a party that doesn't have the same resources to fight a government
agency.
Obviously, that's cost-effective and works well for the commission, but the
amount of commerce that's affected is tiny in comparison
to the taxpayer cost of the resources expended.
And so in New Zealand, we're an outlier internationally in
prosecuting small businesses in narrow markets,
and we see a real opportunity for something like an effective
board to have the perspective to direct
resources where they make the most difference to the most
consumers.
And you'll be familiar with the board structure.
In private practice, boards set priorities to maximize
shareholder return. They deal with reputation, they
deal with social license,
but they don't craft specific initiatives.
They don't implement the functions of the business, and they often
rarely have the CEO as a formal member of the board.
And Sarah.
Yeah.
We've only got about three minutes left, so I'm just wondering if you want to make
some final points.
That is actually the final point that I was going to make, that the
board structure in a traditional corporate framework
is actually apt also for the commission. I'll hand over to Antonia now.
Good morning, everyone. Thank you for this opportunity.
I'll be brief and leave hopefully room for some questions.
Thank you all for the opportunity to present today.
I'm pretty passionate about competition and its role in growing
a productive, future-focused, long-term economy for New Zealand.
The aim of the reform of the bill of the commission itself is for more
competition enforcement in New Zealand.
The OECD report last week called for this, but three changes are
needed to ensure the bill doesn't embed the status quo,
which is a hierarchical, regulatory-focused, siloed commission, as
called out in the Florida Red Stock report, with great intent, wonderful
people, but slow processes, very small
proportions of technical expertise, the legal
economic
expertise required to deliver something like a monopolization
investigation into large business up against people like Sarah,
you need a real technical skill set there, and with the right type of
appetite for high-risk, large-scale cases.
The call and power from the regulatory committee to the board should be removed,
as should the two-tier voting structure.
Plenty of highly rated global agencies, and I've worked with many and in a number,
make complex competition assessments daily without
these overly complex bureaucratic legislative structures.
Efficiency, expertise, and outcomes in our
markets need to be prioritized.
Embedding the specialist commissioner role, again, by a new
name, probably also won't support that.
The second change is that the list of new functions in Section 11
has a rationale in historical case law,
but it needs review to ensure that a new board
will prioritize the things that only the commission can do,
which is competition enforcement,
and to ensure that it knows it can actually remove anti-competitive
regulation, as has already been called out in all the commission's prime market
studies,
or issues that hinder competitive neutrality rather than
just adding regulation. And it's the adding regulation that has
led the commission to be unable to really focus on these critical
things
that only it can do. There's a lot more I could say, but I'm going to leave it
there so you've got some time for questions.
One thing I would just note is when the CMA was set up, and I was
there, it pulled from overseas specialists for its board
in order to ensure people that had real regulatory
expertise of chairing, leading other agencies, the Netherlands, the
US, were sitting on that board and trying to understand how
you run a really efficient regulator.
Commission's got great people from staff to commissioners, but some of that
outside-in perspective on how to do competition enforcement is really
needed.
Thank you.
Thank you. We've got time for one question from Dr. David Wilson.
Can you elucidate on call-in powers, your point around call-in powers?
So in the proposed statute, there is an
idea of setting up these regulatory committees that will make the tricky decisions,
mergers, enforcement,
and that those will have a panel member.
But if the board doesn't like what the panel is doing or is
concerned that it doesn't have the technical expertise, it will call in
that matter and give it another layer of review.
Look, the question I've been asked most, both when I was at the commission by
Sarah, by every other private practitioner, is why don't we do more competition
enforcement in New Zealand? It's already a really hierarchical
organization in terms of the layers and the formalism of what
happens to get a case through. This will just add another
layer or two.
Thank you both for your contribution this morning and insights.
Really appreciate that experience and the process.
Thank you. Thanks.
Thanks, Sarah. Thanks, Antonia.
Good morning, Carolyn. We've got you from Retail NZ.
Are you by yourself this morning?
Yes, I am. Unfortunately, Denise is on a plane, and I'm in Australia, so we're
not able to have a question and counter.
But I appreciate being able to reschedule us from the other day.
Sure. We've got you for 10 minutes. Paper report is read.
Please save some time for questions.
For sure. Look,
thank you very much for your time. I'm the chief executive at Retail NZ.
I'll keep it relatively brief.
We consult with our members through this, and members are supportive of the work
that the Commerce Commission does.
They play an important role, and we believe that these changes should
take
the opportunity that we need to improve transparency and
efficiency through the work that the Commerce Commission does to both
business and consumers.
We do have a couple of concerns. One of them would be around
the Clause 11,
1 where it talks about any matter, that the
Commerce Commission can look at any matter.
That would seem to expand the horizon of what the
Commerce Commission currently does, and so we would have some caution around that
and recommend some specific functions that are actually
specified within the act rather than have any matter, because that's not the role
of the Commission. We think
that there should be something included around e-commerce.
That's an evolving space, and that probably needs to have some
thought around how that would be framed in order to
navigate today and tomorrow. Do you know what I mean?
So that the
e-side of things keeps evolving and moving, so we think that we need to be
thinking about the future. We really recommend a
review period, and that we're agile to respond to changes that
needed to be made if this isn't rolling through as
anticipated. We do believe that the governance is the best structure
and are supportive of the proposed new board.
Cautious around how appointments will be made.
It's really important to ensure that those appointments are independent, they're
not politically aligned, and that they have sustainability over
terms of government.
In most boards, there's a situation where you'll have potentially
people that have sector knowledge and people that are independent, and I think
ensuring that you continue to have that is going to be important.
And our members have called out having someone on the board
that has
competition law expertise. And if you don't have that, maybe having a clause
that enables the board to second someone in for specific
purposes. If you don't have that written in, then the ability to second someone is
quite difficult.
In terms of the regulatory committees, we're supportive of the proposal,
and we think that having a committee with different expertise undertaking the
work can allow for a more robust and examination analysis.
And the idea of a charter would be something that we would
consider would be a good thing. And lastly, just the phasing out of the
telecommunications and grocery is something that
our members support.
They'd be the key things from our perspective,
but happy to take any questions. I am without
Denise today, so I'll do the best I can because she was
the lead point on this one.
Very good. Thanks, Carolyn. First question is from Avina Williams.
Sure, Carolyn. I am so delighted you are here because the committee has heard from
a number of submitters, many very top of the town,
often represented by their lawyers, who have come along and made a submission
around the interests of the larger entities in the
environment. But you are one of the only voices who is representing a range,
including thousands of small businesses, so thank you for submitting.
The point about secondments is one that I completely agree with
you on. But can I get you to reflect on, we have heard
time and time again that inside out governance is going to be the thing that
improves this, and I think that's right, but don't we end up then with
a situation where directors with experience in large retailers
and
the oligopoly players that are keeping out small businesses are going to be the
ones who are appointed? Inevitably, these directors have links to each other.
That's just how our market works, and in some respect, it does still work.
But how is New Zealand going to get this right?
We're a small pool of director talent anyway.
Carolyn, how are we going to get the voice of small businesses around the table if
this is the model that we're using?
Yeah, and that's why we need to really think about how will we appoint people, and
will we be able to reach out to some of those entrepreneurial
businesses that have one or two or three stores that we would shoulder
tap in terms of these spaces? We do need to think outside of the box, or else we're
going to end up with the same space.
And
I think the one other thing I would probably say is that, we really appreciate the
work the Commerce Commission does, but they can be quite glacial in their speed,
and maybe a governance board would help that move along.
And if you have some representation from some
entrepreneurs and some smaller business
background, they're more likely to move at pace,
and which would probably put a little bit of pressure on for a different
outcome and different perspective. And so we'd have to be really thoughtful.
As you say, if you just tap on the shoulder of the same people that you've already
got within an organization, you're going to end up with the same outcomes.
We need to be thinking differently to ensure that we get the best outcome.
Can I test your thinking around named commissioners?
This is one area of
long expertise in the sector that we're talking about that can
represent the interests of all players in the industry rather than just the big end
of town.
I take your point that your members don't support that, but how then do we make
sure that small entrants in those sectors have their
interests within the larger system
top of mind? I think that you're identifying resourcing
concerns more than necessarily who is named and who has the right job.
I think the governance structure needs to ensure that you've got the right people,
one, in governance, that they actually have front of mind what their role is to
achieve, that they're not the running of the business, but they're questioning how
that is run, and that they're really clear on what needs to happen.
So if you're thinking in the grocery sector, a Moore Wilsons of the world or a
Farrow of the world have as much opportunity as a Foodstuffs or a
Woolworths, and making sure that
their position in that sector is not compromised by
just
size alone. That it needs to be able to be seen that they
have a fair,
I'm in Australia, a fair suck of the seed, that they can actually have a crack at
it.
So I think thinking about those sorts of things will be important, and the
Commerce Commission should always be thinking about the wider range of
spaces and how that's fulfilled. And also thinking
more diversity. If you think about grocery, we need to think about suppliers.
The suppliers, we've got a duopoly in the supply side, which
that's as much an issue as it is in terms of having a
duopoly on the grocery side.
Thanks, Carolyn. Question from myself.
In point 18 of your report, you talk about the timeliness, which you've
just sort of gone over in part of Anna's question,
but also about how the charter's an opportunity to improve that transparency of
the decision-making. How or what do you think that could be
improved?
Can I give you a quick example? And
I see the ministers there. We're coming in to see them shortly.
So the gift card, changes to the gift card regime, we had some
members reach out to us about the interpretation of the bill as
we were getting sort of within six months.
They'd gone and got legal advice, and their lawyers said, "It's too difficult
to interpret because it's not clear enough." We went to the Commerce
Commission. It took five months for the Commerce Commission to come back to us with
a decision around how they were going to interpret the bill, and we found out a
week before the bill was enacted, and we don't know
how they made the decision that they did.
And the decision that they made is contrary to the legal advice that a number
of our members received. And so there's no recourse.
They've just made a decision. There's no ability to understand how they got to that
point so that it would help businesses in the future to understand how to
respond to these things. So there does need to be a bit more
transparency and a bit more speed to action.
Yeah, fantastic. That's a great example.
That appears to be the end of our questions.
Thank you for your
submission today. Do make sure you come home from Australia.
Yes, I will indeed. It's wet and gloomy here.
Oh, it's sunshine here. It's beautiful.
Thanks, Carolyn.
No worries. Thanks.
Thank you.
Yeah, have a good day.
See you.
Good morning, Ben.
Good morning.
Well, we've got you for 10 minutes also.
But as you can see, please save some time for questions.
Definitely.
And anybody that wants to interrupt me
in my opening remarks, feel absolutely free.
So I'm a barrister. I've spent half my career working for the
Commission and half in private practice working for, against,
beside the Commission. And so I
bring a staff perspective into it and have seen it.
I've worked with Dame Paula Rebstock, who I deeply admire, and
I highly commend her report. Everybody I've talked to that worked there
said they read it, and they nodded along.
So that's certainly going to take it from that perspective,
and it certainly provides a strong basis for reform of the Commission.
So I've got three areas I just wanted to talk to you about.
The first is the question of delegation, and I heard the comment
about the Commission moving at a glacial pace.
If you look through the report, one of the comments that's made by Dame Paula and
the reviewers is that the levels of delegation are a major
drag on efficiency at the Commission and out of step with
comparative organizations in New Zealand and elsewhere.
Now, the bill doesn't really address this.
It's something that's going to be left to the board.
But I would encourage you to think about whether there are things that
the Select Committee can change in the legislation to encourage the agency going
forward to really use those qualified staff as a way of
moving faster. COVID was a fascinating time to
be working at the Commission because, in part, there was a lot of things that
needed to be done quickly. The governance said, "These are the objectives that need
to be achieved. Go do those." And the staff did, and they reported
back, and there was accountability, and it worked the way that governance might
be expected to work all the time. So in terms of ways you could
promote that, obviously, there can be declaratory statements in the act, but one
might be to provide some protection if delegations go
wrong. One reason people don't want to delegate is if they get the delegations
wrong, a decision gets set aside that causes a lot of
uncertainty for business, for those that rely on the Commission's decision.
Second thing I'd highlight is the importance of
having clear objectives for the Commission.
I would detect that there are times when politicians and the public get
frustrated with the Commission because there's a mismatch between their
expectations of what the Commission should do and what the Commission
actually does. And one of the reasons is there's a whole lot of functions that the
Commission doesn't actually have that people think they probably should.
And I would suggest that there's a really good set that are in there in
the bill now. Some people have queried, "Oh, what about
this?" There was a mention of any matter or issuing warnings or public
comment. If you compare that with the FMA, most of those provisions have
been, I'm not saying they've been copied, but they're very closely similar to
other regulators and probably not of big concern.
But if you know Dr Eric Crampton, one of his frustrations with the
Commission repeatedly is, "Why isn't it stopping government from doing this?
Why isn't it writing a report on why government's limiting competition?"
And I've got a lot of sympathy for that.
Advocating with government to stop limiting competition
deliberately or inadvertently or whatever,
that is a really important function, but it's not in this list of
functions here.So if I was going to add one thing to that function
list, it would be for
the commission to be a voice for competition with government.
And sometimes that will mean being independent and disagreeing with government,
but that's the role.
The final point I just want to highlight is the importance of
independence and expertise, and you've probably heard this from other submitters.
But we are looking to adopt, in part,
an approach from the United Kingdom, where we're tinkering with the fundamentals of
the commission by adding the panel and adding a board
structure. And
there may or may not be efficiencies that are derived from that, time
will tell. Certainly, the United Kingdom is looking to move away from that
model to some extent.
But if we lose the independence and expertise of the commission at any point, then
all the gains that will be made will be for naught.
I've identified a number of areas in my submission where that can be
improved. The
appointments to regulatory committees should be a thing that
the board is required to publish and the process that they follow for
making and changing appointments.
It's not clear to me why some commissioners are appointed and dismissed by the
Governor General and others by the minister.
That might well give people a false sense that some people are more able
to be influenced than others.
There's no independent obligation on the regulatory committee members to be
independent. And if we want staff or externals to be appointed to
that, we don't want them feeling that
pressure might be put on them to do anything other than what they think is the best
outcome.
So I think I could see some fingers going that suggest questions, so I'll leave it
there and happy to answer any questions.
Thanks. Our first question from Dan Bidois.
Thanks, Mr Chair. Thanks, Ben. Really good to have an insider
perspective from the commission.
So thank you for your submission and for your recommendations.
Most of your recommendations kind of signal to me it's just
about clarifying roles and
responsibilities across the commission.
Give us a sense of what it was like when you were there around, is
the left hand talking to the right hand today? Is there silos?
Are you sort of confident that if we adopt some of your
recommendations that the new structure will be much
more
streamlined and
singularly focused with everybody kind of knowing
what their role is in the organization?
So starting with the question of silos.
I think the commission has been more siloed in the past, and that
changed particularly sort of about 2018,
'19 onwards. That was a deliberate separation of the
regulatory and the enforcement functions.
And I'm reasonably confident that that is an issue that's kind of a bit behind
the commission. Left hand talking to the right hand.
Generally, I think the problem might be too much talking between the two hands
and not enough hands doing things within the commission.
The
idea that the commission moves glacially is often because it is doing a lot of
consultation, a lot of drafting, a lot of written communication of a very high
quality,
and that shouldn't be discouraged.
But I don't think internal communication is going to
be diminished by what's being proposed here.
Great.
I should say a lot of the recommendations that I have made
suggested really move us away from the idea that we would,
expertise and independence in particular are maintained by having good
people. Good people are important, but good structures mean that
you don't have to rely just on
whether the right candidates have always been appointed.
Great. Thank you.
Thanks. Elena Williams.
Ben, agree with your point about good people and just thinking
through,
how do we make sure that we're getting to the right solution for the
problem that I think everybody agrees that everybody wants the commission to do
more, especially on the enforcement side?
We got to the end of the market studies process under the last government, say, and
that team's pretty tooled up and had a lot of expertise that are now gone,
essentially.
Maybe I could ask you this in a different way. You're a barrister.
Why does the Commerce Commission, and why has it, for a very long time, not taken a
section
36 prosecution?
Look, there's a lot tied up in that, and I should say I do act for the commission
on a Section 36 prosecution, so I will-
Yeah
... talk about it at a very high level.
For a long time, the law was very unfavorable to the commission, and if you want to
take $5 million and put it in a pile and burn it, failing,
you need to have a really good justification to the public as to
why these were really important issues to do it.
And the commissioners at the time obviously felt that they did not have cases
where they were getting enough squeeze,
enough juice from the lemon.
And you're happy to go back to the drama market study, right?
So what is the
thing that was missing? Was it temperature? Was it penalties?
I think we're getting to the point now where it maybe wasn't structure, is my
question.
Look, I think the
law change in 2023 to change to an SLC test for
the Section 36, the monopolization provision,
that removed kind of the main legal obstacle.
When the law changes, it doesn't usually
change retrospectively, so there's naturally a time period for
something to occur under the new law, be detected, be investigated,
and be prosecuted. And the commission will be looking for,
as any regulator would, good cases to bring under the new
law because you don't want a bad precedent
to then set you on 20 years of
bad cases. So,
the commission gets direction from the minister as to the minister's
priorities,
and whether it's a board or a panel, those sort of
things will, with resource, with clear directions, and with the right law,
then that will be important.
The one thing I would say is if you're trying to assess does the law need to
change, having those functions sections set out really
well does enable you to say, "Well, is there something missing here?
We've got a function here. We're not getting an outcome." You can test a proposed
power. If someone wants digital markets reform, how does that fit against
those functions and expectations we have?
Final question from Dr. David.
Ben, thank you very much for your submissions. Very good.
You obviously ride across both private and public sector governance.
I enjoyed part of that, especially your contribution around
regulatory committees remaining independent.
Interested in your comment around guaranteeing the involvement of the chief
commissioner in appointments to the regulatory committee and
how you maintain that good independence and governance,
because that's absolutely vital in this working.
So I haven't practiced in the UK, but my understanding is over there, the
equivalent of the chief commissioner either makes appointments
or at the very least recommends to the board. I think it is makes the appointments.
So
by having the chief commissioner select who it is, on one hand, they
can have that soft management of who's got capacity, who's got the skills, et
cetera.
Yeah.
But also if there is concern about independence,
a board might well disagree with the recommendation for good reason.
That increases the transparency
around any, gives people confidence that there isn't any
skullduggery about making sure the right people were selected to get the right
specific outcome on the matter.
Thank you
very much.
Thanks, Ben. Thanks for coming in.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate it. Thank you, everyone.
We're going to now move into private. So thank you.